# Uniform Policy

## Memorandum 5: Uniform Policy and Standards

1. This memorandum outlines 19 SFS specific uniform policies and standards.
2. **Headgear** - IAW DAFI 36-2903, *Dress and Personal Appearance of Department of the Air Force Personnel*, paragraph 10.3, any Defender posted at Installation Access Control Points (IACPs), as a Law Enforcement Patrol, or serving in a staff function will wear the authorized Beret. As all patrols at Little Rock AFB are dual-purpose (Security/LE), all 19 SFS Defenders who hold a 3P/31P AFSC will wear the authorized Beret while in uniform.
3. IAW DAFI 36-2903, paragraph 10.3.1, the Commander may authorize deviations to the above order. While deviations are subject to change, the standing deviations from the above policy are:
    1. When the local temperature outside is above 90 degrees Fahrenheit, wear of the Tactical OCP Cap (Baseball Cap) or OCP Patrol Cap is authorized for Defenders posted at IACPs only.
        1. Local temperature is based on the actual (not 'real feel') temperature for Jacksonville, AR. The local temperature is determined by the on-duty Flight Chief (or Flight Sergeant) using either military or commercially available means (i.e. the weather app on your phone). All Defenders must report for duty with a serviceable Beret.
    2. When the local temperature outside is below 40 degrees Fahrenheit, wear of the coyote or black watch cap (beanie) is authorized for all Defenders.
    3. When participating in Squadron-level Training, headgear is at the direction of S4T Instructors and should be based on scenario, temperature, and training objectives. Tactical/Patrol caps may be worn during direct transit to/from training areas, but not to/from stops or appointments.
    4. When not required to wear headgear (i.e. training areas, flightline, no hat/no salute) Defenders may wear the headgear of their choice. NOTE: Boonie Hats are not authorized for wear unless specifically authorized in field conditions by the S4 Superintendent or higher authority. CATM is authorized to wear the red baseball cap while in/around SFS facilities only.
4. Defenders are one of the few career fields in the Air Force authorized to wear a beret. It is a privilege and demonstrates professionalism, dedication, and pride in our duties. However, climatic conditions make wearing the wool-blend beret in extreme weather impractical, and it can lead to increased fatigue, lack of focus on a Defender's primary duties, and increased risk of weather-related injuries. All Defenders should be proud to wear the beret while taking reasonable precautions to ensure we are always alert, professional, and ready to execute our primary mission. Preparedness is a whole-body task, and includes elements like mental readiness, hydration, physical fitness, and healthy eating habits. The professionalism and pride from wearing the beret is only one part of this whole-body approach.
5. **Electronic Devices** - Posted Defenders who are either on-duty and/or armed will not wear/use distracting, personally procured electronic devices. This includes headphones, 'Air Pods', virtual/augmented reality glasses or devices, blue tooth calling devices, or any similar product. Cell phones are authorized for personal use on post; however, personal use of cell phones will be kept out of view of the public and will not distract from a Defender's primary duties. Cell phones are an authorized means for official communication, if primary and alternate means are not available. Unit issued headsets that connect to the issued radios are authorized for use. Situational awareness is critical for posted Defenders and must not be compromised while on duty.
6. **Body Armor** - Defender's gear is to be clean, serviceable, sized appropriately, and prepared for shift. The Modular Scalable Vest (MSV) issued from LRS, in the appropriate configuration for your assigned duties (Attachment 1) is mandatory for wear. Flight Chiefs/Sergeants are responsible for validating equipment functionality during Open Ranks Inspections (ORIs) conducted at Guardmount. Personally procured pouches are authorized, however, they must meet reliability and color standards similar-to or better-than the issued equipment.
    1. Defenders are not authorized to wear moral patches on their uniform, unless specifically authorized by the Senior Enlisted Leader (SEL) or Commander. Defenders are authorized to wear 1x unit-approved moral patch on their body armor (i.e. Sqn/Flt patches), in addition to: subdued blood-type patches, subdued aircrew-style name placards, the subdued SF badge, and/or any patches that are authorized for wear on the uniform (flag, 'SF', MAJCOM, Sqn, name, 'US Air Force', and rank). Last name and rank will always be visible while on duty (i.e. displayed on the front of body armor).
7. Any questions or concerns related to this policy can be directed to Maj Ippolito, at robert.ippolito.1@us.af.mil, via the chain-of-command.  ROBERT C. IPPOLITO, Maj, USAF Commander, 19th Security Forces Squadron Attachments:
